# Fuel-Economy-Analysis
  This is my second capstone project that I completed as a student in Thinkful's data analytics program. The aim of the project was to derive some insight into fuel economy for the use of a consumer review site. Given, a large sample of data with fuel economy information from vehicles made between the years of 1984-2017.
  My goal was to use this data to allow consumers to make educated decisions regarding fuel economy when looking to purchase a new vehicle. Going into the project I made a few assumptions to guide my investigation and my recommendations. First, I determined that most consumers had a general idea of the class of vehicle that they were looking to purchase. Each consumer has a unique and personal set of qualifications that the vehicle they need must match. Some consumers may need a car that seats their whole family, while others will need their vehicle to tow or carry large loads, and some consumers may simply look for something compact to fit their minimal needs.
  Secondly, I wanted my research to allow consumers to make easy financial decisions while looking for their new vehicle. While there are many reasons consumers might want to know all the fuel economy details about their potential purchase, the amount of money that the consumer can expect to save or spend after purchasing the car seemed the most important. I decided that my research should serve consumer's financial interests in a three pronged apporach. I wanted to give customers the information that would give them an idea of the routine costs, annual costs, and long term costs that will accompany their vehicle of interest. A vehicle is a large investment and customers should be able to have easy access to information that can save them money in the future or be prepared for the expected costs.
  With my main objectives in sight I ran a number of statistical analyses to determine A) whether a vehicle's fuel economy score was a reliable indicator or low fuel costs, B) whether the various Annual Fuel Costs listed in the data set could be used as a reliable indicator of the real life population of vehicles' fuel costs, and C) whether the Annual Fuel Costs of each class of car could be proven to be significantly different from the whole population and each unique class of vehicle. Ultimately my analyses proved that fuel economy score was not a reliable indicator of fuel costs, the sample population of fuel costs could be used with confidence as an indicator of actual costs, and lastly that each class of car did have a unique set of short term and long term fuel costs.
  Knowing what information in the dataset was reliable and related to my objectives, I created a dashboard featuring easy to read visualizations that allows users to observe a wide array of pertinent information concerning their vehicle of interest's fuel economy details. The dashboard allows users to select the class of vehicle that they are looking to purchase, next the user can scroll between the various makes of vehicles that make cars of that specific class. The dashboard displays charts and visualizations that display the top recommended models of vehicle by mpg, how the vehicle make/class compares to other vehicles of the same class in terms of annual fuel costs, the fuel economy score and its percentile, the vehicl maker's history of co2 emissions, and how the vehicle stacks up to other vehicles in terms of 5 year spendings or savings.
